I had a bad start with this project.  I had many issues getting the VM up and running.  It turns out that this is because I had not selected a powerful enough machine.  When i created a new, more powerful VM, Ihad no more issues.  
To begin the project I set up a VM, then i remote connected to it using RDP protocall and remote desktop.  I then installed SQL server and SSMS on this VM. Next, i I downloaded a backup file of the AdventureWorks2022 database and restored this as my production database.

The next stage was to setup an Azure SQL server and then an SQL database, with SQL authentication method.  Next, I installed Azure Data Studio on the VM and used it to connect to the AdventureWorks2222 database.  Following this I used data studio to connect to the Azure SQL database.  I then installed Schema Compare, and used this to compare the schema of the Adventureworks2022 database with the Azure SQL one.  I then migrates the schema to the Azure database.  Next, I installed the Azure SQL migration extension in data studio, before migrating the local database to the azure SQL database.  I then validated the migrated data using SQL queries, until I was satisfied that it had migrated correctly.  

Next, I backed up the local database on the VM.  I then created an azure storage account and then added a new container to it. I uploaded the backup to this container.  Next, i created a new VM to be a development 'sandbox'.  I installed SQL server and SSMS.  Next i donwnloaded the database backup from the storage container, and restored it to the server on the sandbox VM.  Next, i created a backup of the database on the sandbox VM, and then i set up a Management Task that automates weekly backups of the  database.


Next, to simulate data loss, i deleted the top 100 rows from the password table in the person schena.  I then proceeded to restore the database from the azure sql database backup.  
Next, to ensure data protection and redundancy, geo-replication was setup for the production database.  I chose to host this replication in Nothern Europe.
Next I orchestrated a planned failover to this secondary region.  I did this by selecting the production database and nevigating to replicas.  Here, i selected the secondary database and then selected failover.  I then connected to the database on this replication server using Azure data studio, to verify the contents and check the data.  Once I was satisfied that the failover had worked, I performed a failover back to the primary region.
Next, I set up a new Microsoft Entra ID account for myself, which involved setting up microsoft authenticator as well.  I then set this account to be the microsoft entera admin for the server the production database was on.  Following this, I connected to the Adventureworks database on this server from Azure data studio, using microsoft entera authentication.
Finally, I created a new entera ID, to function as a DB reader.  I then connected to the database using this user, and ran some queries to verify that it had worked.   
